"Why not to follow your passion"

Popular Mantras like ‘find your passion’ carry hidden implications…they imply that once an interest resonates,
pursuing it will be easy and everything will come by itself.


Cal got interested in how it comes that people that try to follow there passion are mostly unhappy in there job
and people that don't are.
He interviews around 20 different people and makes observations about the patterns and linearity between these people.

There is no evidence at all. that people who are happy at there job, had an pre-existing interest for it.
the three things that DID matter a lot at and where seen at all happy people where mastery, autonomy and relationships

**Most people dont have a clear passion**

The problem with passion, it that it is for a lot of people not clear what is it. Maybe you liked to paint when you where younger
or like to to yoga in your free time. But does that enjoyment mean it is your 'passion'?
The feeling that your not at the right place at the moment and that your passion is the way is very frustrating.
40 years ago about 90% of the younger american workforce was happy with there place.
Around the 90s it became populair to to say " follow your passion" At the moment the job happines is as low as 40%
If you follow your passion, the world now has to provide to you the options, you are not providing to the world.
This makes it hard to find a good fit on the market.

(cool example about steve jobs who studied philosophy and buddhism. Computers where never his passion and he did not touch
one in his whole school years. but he developed his craft and skills, and with that comes passion!)

he argues that wherever you are at the moment in your career. trying to be the best craftsman will grow passion and recognition.
This way you can build up "Career capital" and that will be easy to leverage in your favor.
(interesting example from girl that builds databases and have become quite good at it. Since she is good at it she
leverages this in more autonomy in work. at the moment she only works half a year, the other half she go's Diving and do whatever)

The problem he found most people have when following your passion is that you don't have what he calls "Career capital".
When you are good at something, you can lever it in your favor like the girl above

